A CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGING RADIATION DOSE TO PATIENTS IN DIAGNOSTIC
RADIOLOGY USING REFERENCE DOSE LEVELS.

The overall aim of the present work was to develop a conceptual framework for
managing radiation dose in diagnostic radiology with the intention to support
optimisation. An optimisation process was first derived. The framework for
managing radiation dose, based on the derived optimisation process, was then
outlined. The outset of the optimisation process is four stages: providing
equipment, establishing methodology, performing examinations and ensuring
quality. The optimisation process comprises a series of activities and actions at
these stages. The current system of diagnostic reference levels is an activity in
the last stage, ensuring quality. The system becomes a reactive activity only to 
a certain extent engaging the core activity in the radiology department,
performing examinations. Three reference dose levels-possible, expected and
established-were assigned to the three stages in the optimisation process,
excluding ensuring quality. A reasonably achievable dose range is also derived,
indicating an acceptable deviation from the established dose level. A reasonable 
radiation dose for a single patient is within this range. The suggested framework
for managing radiation dose should be regarded as one part of the optimisation
process. The optimisation process constitutes a variety of complementary
activities, where managing radiation dose is only one part. This emphasises the
need to take a holistic approach integrating the optimisation process in
different clinical activities.