DR AVRAM JOZEF VINAVER (1862-1915) - PIONEER OF RADIOLOGY IN SERBIA.

INTRODUCTION: Dr Abraham Joseph Vinaver (1862-1915), a Jew from Poland, was a
pioneer of radiology in Serbia. He graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in
Warsaw (1887), but lived and worked in abac (the Kingdom of Serbia) since 1890.
Dr Abraham Joseph Vinarev - Career Development. He procured the first X-ray
machine and developed radiological service in Sabac five years after the
discovery of X-rays. These were the beginnings of radiology in Serbia. He
introduced the application of artesian wells. Dr Abraham Joseph Vinarev - a
Participant at the First Congress of Serbian Physicians and Naturalists, Belgrade
1904. "The diagnostic importance of X-rays in lung disease, especially in initial
tuberculosis" and "Five Years of Treatment by X-Ray Machines" were the first
works in the field of radiology in Serbia by this author. Dr Abraham Joseph
Vinaver - Reserve Medical Officer in the Serbian Army. During the Balkan Wars, he
was a volunteer with the rank of major engaged in military corps and he
participated in the First World War as well. He died of malaria in 1915 in
Gevgelija. "Dr Avram Vinaver"- Stanislav Vinarev. His dedication to work during
the typhus epidemics was put into verses of a poem by his son Stanislav Vinarev.
CONCLUSION: Dr Avram Vinaver Joseph was a noble man with a great heart, who
selflessly sacrificed himself for the Serbian people and Serbia. He gave his
contribution to the development of health services in Serbia, both in peacetime
and wartime conditions. Dr Abraham Joseph Vinaver laid the foundations for
today's radiology in Serbia.