Dose audit for patients undergoing two common radiography examinations with
digital radiology systems.

PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the radiation doses delivered to patients
undergoing general examinations using computed or digital radiography systems in 
Turkey.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Radiographs of 20 patients undergoing posteroanterior
chest X-ray and of 20 patients undergoing anteroposterior kidney-ureter-bladder
radiography were evaluated in five X-ray rooms at four local hospitals in the
Ankara region. Currently, almost all radiology departments in Turkey have
switched from conventional radiography systems to computed radiography or digital
radiography systems. Patient dose was measured for both systems. The results were
compared with published diagnostic reference levels (DRLs) from the European
Union and International Atomic Energy Agency.
RESULTS: The average entrance surface doses (ESDs) for chest examinations
exceeded established international DRLs at two of the X-ray rooms in a hospital
with computed radiography. All of the other ESD measurements were approximately
equal to or below the DRLs for both examinations in all of the remaining
hospitals. Improper adjustment of the exposure parameters, uncalibrated automatic
exposure control systems, and failure of the technologists to choose exposure
parameters properly were problems we noticed during the study.
CONCLUSION: This study is an initial attempt at establishing local DRL values for
digital radiography systems, and will provide a benchmark so that the authorities
can establish reference dose levels for diagnostic radiology in Turkey.