Data analysis and review of radiology services at Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth
Games.

BACKGROUND: Medical services at the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games (CWG) were
provided though a purpose-built medical polyclinic, which had a fully equipped
radiology department along with other services, set up within the main Games
Village. Data analysis of radiology services offered at CWG has not been
published before.
SETTING: Imaging services within the polyclinic, Athletes Village, Glasgow 2014
CWG.
AIM: The aim of the paper is to analyse data on radiological investigations and
assess the demand and distribution of workload on imaging services at CWG 2014.
METHODOLOGY: Data on radiology investigations at the CWG 2014 was retrieved from 
the Carestream picture archiving and communication system (PACS) and Pharmasys
(CWG official centralised electronic database system) and analysed.
RESULTS: Six hundred ninety-seven diagnostic and interventional procedures were
performed. Of these 37.9% were magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, 22% were
diagnostic ultrasound (US) examinations, 33.1% were radiographs, 4.3% were
computed tomography (CT) scans and 2.7% were imaging-guided interventional
procedures. 88% of imaging was performed on athletes and the remainder were
performed on team officials and workforce. Demand on radiology services gradually
picked up through the pre-competition period and peaked half way through the CWG.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiology played a vital role in the successful provision of medical
services at the Glasgow 2014 CWG. High demand on imaging services can be expected
at major international sporting events and therefore pre-event planning is vital.
Having back-up facilities in case of technical failure should be given due
importance when planning radiology services at future CWG events.